In his wire sculptures, Kischot, aka Tobias Eder, lets out various objects and gives them as part of his art a longer life than was intended for them.

His works are therefore a fantastic statement against the art community and at the same time tell charming stories through the used objects from which they come from.

We visit him in his home, which is also his studio, and get an insight into his creative process.

What comes first, the idea or the material? Then the idea is definitely what comes first, but in terms of the overall concept, it is a trio.

It is a trio of the experience that you have to do first, which then deliberately or subconsciously slumbers into you to then be able to develop an idea,

to then find material to realize this idea. So the material is used only to then form this idea.

So the idea comes first and the idea only comes through experience.

From here I will form the body and I will use this as the base, the chestnut as the head, this as the hair and the hat.

And I can also use the string as an accessory.

The idea for the figure came originally when I was at home in my room and it was Corona, we were all completely isolated.

I had the figure of my father, which we had collected in Denmark on vacation, and it stood on a shell right next to the record player.

I had put up a nice record and the need to dance and not to interact with anyone.

And then the idea came to me, so I just put three disc under it and we danced together.

And then the experience came back to the idea, the need to want to dance.

And now it has become a passion that I like to build.

With his figures he shows how much beauty can still be found in unused and no longer wanted.

In any case, sustainability is an important factor in my art.

It is simply the striking concept of my and future generations.

And every conscious person who walks through our environment, whether it is in the cities or in nature, sees the garbage that is simply there.

In this respect, of course, my art is shaped by the fact that I collect my materials from the ground.

Over the years, he has developed his own techniques to re-evaluate worthless things and to shape our garbage into his figures.

What do I want to transport through art?

My artwork is a means of communication.

I don't want to make decorative art.

The more abstract the communication, the more effective the understanding and the result will be.

If we now stay with the record player, the vinyl creature, he buys the record from an artist you really like

and supports this artist and then actively goes to listen to music.

Enjoy the music, maybe at the fourth place is your favorite song and then you wait for it.

And to really enjoy it, you could even let a creature dance with you.